Chickasaw Peace Treaty Feeler -- 1782

A talk from us to be delivered by Simon Burney to the Commanders of every different Station between this Nation and the Falls of the Ohio River.

My Former Friends we mean to conclude a peace with you as Brothers never fall out with other but they make Friends again. If it is agreeable to you it is our desire to be at Peace with you that our corn may grow and our stocks increase for the benefit of our children hereafter. You will observe at this same time our making peace with you doth not intitle us to fall out with our Fathers the English for we love them as they were the first people that ever supported us to defend ourselves against former Enimies the French and Spaniards and all their Indains and we are a people that never forget any kindness done by any Nation. We send this by Mr. Burney who says he lately came from among you and you may rely on any thing he tells you on the Subject of peace.

Payman Taukaw Talk, we were formerly very good Friends and I thought we should be always so but we have had some small differences, but now we are good Friends again. Some time ago we had nothing to see and hear how brothers fall out, for my part I could wish to see it as it was formerly. I have been no where but here at this place and at this place I sit down and hear all your disturbances. I hear'd by a Chickasaw fellow that has been some time among you that you have sent many letters to this Nation, and you may think that we received them and dismissed your talks, but be a prised that none ever got here. We are not like white people for when they fight they send a Flag each other and then renew the fight. But they say send you a Flag for peace not to renew any more Battles, as there never was much fighting between you and us, as for our people we never have done you much harm, it is true some of our young Fellows has stole some of your Horses, but still they never went of themselves then was other Nations, Creeks, Cherokees, Waupenockys, etc, who led them out and what damages was done was by reason you settled a fort in our hunting ground without our leave, and at that place you suffered most from us, we received a Talk from the Illinois wherein thay had us know that the Virginians, French and Spanish are all as one and desire us to be Friends with them, I don't doubt but they have let you know by this time what they wrote have in regard to peace and when you see this it will satisfy you on our part

Read Rings Talk to the same.

Poymace Tauhaw

Mingo Homaw Chickasaw NationTuskone Palaso

9th July 1782 Paymingo

A true copy John Bowman 